Defectdojo api swati (#118)
r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities: README.md

* `DOJO_URL` is the URL where DefectDojo is installed.
* `REPORT_FILE` is the Semgrep report path

> ### Utility to integrate the results from the findings API in DefectDojo

Reviewer: I can't leave a comment on the other header, but I think we should actually restructure this to have a top-level header of something like "Integrate Semgrep findings in DefectDojo" and then have one section for the common steps (API token, product/engagement) followed by separate sections for each script called something like:

* Using CLI JSON results
* Using Semgrep Findings API results

would be my recommendation.

> To integrate Semgrep Cloud Platform findings into DefectDojo, this utility uses the Semgrep [Findings API](https://semgrep.dev/api/v1/docs/#tag/Finding). It fetches the results, converts them into the JSON format compatible with DefectDojo, and then uploads this formatted report to your specified DefectDojo Product and Engagement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This utility uses the Semgrep [Findings API](https://semgrep.dev/api/v1/docs/#tag/Finding) to integrate Semgrep Cloud Platform findings into DefectDojo. It fetches the findings from the API, converts them into a JSON format compatible with DefectDojo, and then uploads the formatted result to your specified DefectDojo Product and Engagement.
```

> The primary goal is to insert the Semgrep findings API data into DefectDojo. The users who use Managed Scanning find it difficult as the DefectDojo integration works with Semgrep JSON output file. This is mainly focused on the SAST results. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script works with SAST results. 
```

> You can write a similar script for SCA findings. The [DefectDojo parser](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/blob/477583eb674a6a93516a2b794cd9889cb6d7ab81/dojo/tools/semgrep/parser.py) and the sample [Semgrep JSON](https://github.com/DefectDojo/django-DefectDojo/tree/master/unittests/scans/semgrep) files can help understanding the requirements for SCA.

Reviewer: I probably would merge this with the previous paragraph and frame it as encouraging contributions to expand the functionality of this utility :)

> It consists of two main scripts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It consists of two scripts:
```

Reviewer: More pertinently - why does this consist of two scripts? I would recommend structuring it as a single script. Lets you also skip writing out the JSON if you want to, and you can use a CLI option or internal setting to determine if the JSON gets written out or uploaded, if you don't always want to upload.

> 1.  `transformFindingsToJSON.py`: This is the main execution script. It handles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  `transformFindingsToJSON.py`: This script handles:
```

>     * Fetching findings from a specific Semgrep deployment via its API.
>     * Handling pagination to retrieve all available findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Fetching all available findings from a specific Semgrep deployment (uses pagination).
```

    * Transforming the API response structure into the `Semgrep JSON Report` format that DefectDojo expects for imports.
    * Saving the transformed findings to a local JSON file (`semgrep_findings_formatted.json`).
    * Calling the upload script to send the results to DefectDojo.

> 2.  `uploadSemgrepJSONToDefectDojo.py`: This script contains the function responsible for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  `uploadSemgrepJSONToDefectDojo.py`: This script handles:
```

>     * Taking the generated JSON file and relevant DefectDojo details (URL, token, product, engagement).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Taking in the generated findings JSON file and relevant DefectDojo details (URL, token, product, engagement).
```

>     * Making a POST request to the DefectDojo API (`/api/v2/import-scan/`) to upload the findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Uploading the findings with a POST request to the DefectDojo API (`/api/v2/import-scan/`).
```

> Steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Steps

```

* In your system, declare environment variable `DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN`
```
export DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN=xxxxxx
```
* In DefectDojo:
    * Create your product (a product is DefectDojo's concept for a project).

>     * For that DefectDojo product, create an engagement called `semgrep`.

Reviewer: If my suggestion above to factor this out is used, we can eliminate these lines as they will be covered in the common setup.
